Our topic will be investigating two-factor authentication and what makes it secure in the first place to where most companies and businesses utilize it so heavily. One 2FA we will look into is Duo since it is widely used by many for 2FA security purposes. We will also look into which authentication methods are best for authentication (text, phone call, generating random keys for login, etc). Additionally, we will also investigate what makes these various methods most vulnerable to attacks and hackers. After researching which methods are best for 2FA we will look into specifically how each of them work and how we could even begin developing a 2FA application. We plan on using Python since it has so many useful libraries and because we plan on incorporating either facial recognition or voice recognition which Python is best utilized for. Furthermore, we plan on developing a website to host our 2FA application where we will be using JavaScript, HTML, CSS, and many other frameworks within JavaScript to make the development of the website more easier. 
As for implementing each specific authentication method, we will assign each group member one authentication method to work. This ensures that the majority of the work does not fall on any specific group member and that the work is divided up equally amongst us. As for our plan on the project itself, we plan on holding weekly group meetings to track progress and see if we’re meeting our goals for each week just so that we hold each other accountable and do not fall behind. Our goal for this project is to learn more about how 2FA works and why many businesses use it as compared to other authentication methods that are arguably more secure. We also hope to accomplish our stretch goal by implementing an authentication method that utilizes AI/ML such as facial or voice recognition since we think that this is one of the more secure methods of authentication as compared to other methods. 
There are a few essential things that will be needed for this project, beginning with a user authentication system that allows the user to register, log in, and manage their account. This is the most important for a two-factor authentication app to work. In addition, a database would be needed to keep track of user login information. Utilizing technologies like SQLite3 for lightweight, embedded database functionality, and hashlib for secure hashing, ensures the protection of sensitive user data. By using Python, we can take advantage of libraries that help with verifications. One example that we would find useful is PyOTP, a library that generates one-time passwords essential for two-factor verification. The system would need to check this one-time password with the expected code, and grant access accordingly. Kali Linux also comes equipped with security testing tools to conduct security assessments and provide any vulnerabilities to address any concerns. The terminal is necessary for us to run tests, stay up to date with versions in Git, and interact with further tools and libraries to stay organized.
Something that we plan on accomplishing beyond our core goals is having a user-friendly interface. A user-friendly interface for a 2FA entails that the website has clear instructions, a simple design, and accessibility features. This not only enhances the overall user experience, but also promotes security and fosters positive interactions with the website. It is important for both a web application and any APIs we consider using to be accessible across clients. This includes instructions for setting up the 2FA and handling any authentication failures if needed. We will be incorporating basic functionalities of JavaScript, HTML/CSS, and d3.js if necessary to establish the best experience for our users. 
I think the most challenging part for us would be to develop authentication methods, such as facial recognition and voice recognition, using AI/ML. For this we need to integrate machine learning algorithms and training models into our application for enhanced security. We also need to make sure that the facial recognition and voice recognition methods are accurate by developing algorithms that can detect suspicious activity. This will ensure enhanced security for the user. We also need to make sure that our 2FA system is resistant to various attacks such as phishing, brute force attacks, and man-in-the-middle attacks. This will require careful design and testing of the 2FA system so we are able to avoid loopholes in the system. 
 
